At this point,
we know about the demand and work management activities and processes and
have learned about several approaches to helping you out.
Say you have a team of six people or three dozen.
How might you organize them?
So let's look at a variety of ways to organize your
operational support resources.
Here's a great quote.
"The purpose of an organization "is to enable ordinary
human beings "to do extraordinary things.
" by the business genius, Peter Drucker.
Yes, it sounds a bit lofty,
but serious thought should be taken in determining how you
will organize and align your resources.
You don't want the organization to get in the way of productive work.
So in this section,
we will explore a bunch of different ways to slice and dice the team
and may give you some ideas on where to start.
Dedicated versus shared resources.
I will provide, first,
a general definition of each and then discuss their attributes.
When you have a dedicated resource, that person is working on your work alone.
You get to allocate all of his or her time.
Shared resources.
This person is not just yours.
Other projects have claims on this resource too.
Therefore,
when and where this person's hours will be available may need to be negotiated.
OK, for dedicated,
you have a known budget or headcount for a customer or project,
for example.
But for shared, you have a known budget or headcount for anyone asking for help.
So any one of your customers may pull and tug on those resources as needed.
For dedicated,
less need to track and make tickets since you are only
working with maybe one customer or one project.
For shared on the other hand,
I think there's a greater need to track or make tickets since your
time is allocated across multiple customers,
and you need to know what percent of those resources are
used for better managing those resources.
Next, for dedicated, easy and direct access to your customers,
no competition with other customers or projects.
But for shared, less direct access to your customers,
resources should support all customers as equally as possible.
For dedicated, may waste unused resources.
If the customer has lightened up on requests,
then some of those other resources may be on the bench or have some downtime.
For shared, better use of limited resources,
if a customer has lightened up on requests,
then resources can help other customers.
For dedicated,
a greater level of customer service since the resources are dedicated.
They get to know the customer better and deeper.
They can build solid relationships and likely provide better service.
For shared,
less level of customer service but can save money by
spreading resources across multiple customers.
Also, let's say you had one really big customer and 10 little ones.
Maybe you organize one team around the one big customer and
another team around the 10 little ones.
Now let's look at other options to organizing your teams.
So how should you organize your people to support operations?
Maybe by skills.
The developers are on one team, the business analysts are on another team,
and the triage specialists are yet another team.
Or collect people by platform or technology.
Maybe you collect everyone with similar skills to
tackle all tickets for those skills.
Let's say you have a large suite of apps written on the Microsoft stack,
you know, such as.
NET, C#, and SQL,
placing everyone together on a team to support all
tickets within that stack may be prudent.
Or maybe by line of business, LOB.
People, whether a developer, business analyst,
or other role, are together to support a line of business.
Now,
a line of business is a general term which refers to a product or service
that serves a particular customer or business need.
A large aerospace company may be divided,
organizationally, by marketing, engineering,
manufacturing, and quality.
It may make great sense to map your supports ops by line of business.
For complicated business organizations,
it takes a very experienced and domain-rich set of individuals to
provide that operational support to the highest level.
And lastly, what I call a mix.
And you'll see more of what I call a mix on almost every slide.
People may be organized in a team containing some skills,
some platform, some line of business.
I see a lot of this, and it's not my favorite.
OK,
now let's drill a little deeper into the example of
levels of skills and knowledge.
In general,
here are the levels of skill and knowledge required for
each of the following categories.
In custom built,
you will have highly technical application development
people with a rich domain knowledge.
In off-the-shelf solutions,
you need application configuration expertise and rich domain knowledge.
You can't effectively configure a system without business domain knowledge.
But the skill level could be more like a business
analyst and typically not developers.
SaaS.
Many times SaaS applications are even easier to provision and have
what I call super user skills may be sufficient.
And lastly,
the catch-all or mix may be a combination of all of the previous skillsets.
Notice, all of them require, in my view, rich domain knowledge.
That is a consistent thread in my opinion.
Domain knowledge, that's an in-depth understanding of your business,
process, and industry.
Now let's drill a little deeper into organizing by platform and technology.
Here's what organizing by platform or technology may look like.
The first is custom built where you have the developers
together and they have very similar skills.
The second is off-the-shelf solutions.
So not custom built, but pre-made and purchased.
These are fully operational products that you have
configured and purchased such as SAP, Salesforce,
or something like that.
So you might have a team assembled around a suite of SAP products, for example.
Next is SaaS, software as a service,
is basically an off-the-shelf solution in the cloud.
SaaS is a software licensing and delivery model in which software is
licensed on a subscription basis and is centrally hosted.
SaaS is typically accessed by users using a thin client or web browser.
Nonetheless,
all SaaS solutions have administrator portals so that people can configure,
monitor, and use the system.
And again, you may have a team assembled around one or more SaaS solutions.
Some examples may be Microsoft Office 365,
Atlassian's Confluence or Jira, and Box.
And lastly,
the catch-all or mix of all of these may be needed to support a
business unit or portions of an organization.
Also keep in mind that customer may not care.
You want to operate and support your applications,
systems,
and platforms in such a way as to make your customer as efficient as possible
and the seams between the systems as transparent as possible.
Now,
let's drill a little deeper into different examples
of organizing by line of business.
Now let's see the different flavors of line of business.
Maybe you want to organize around industry.
For example, a team of all different skills support education.
Or another one, say, government agencies.
Or you organize around business verticals,
for example, engineering, marketing, finance,
things like that.
Or regionally, such as US, Europe, Asia.
And lastly, our catch-all, which is mix.
Maybe everyone is supporting everything.
But you can imagine if a regional is Europe and another
regional was North America that language,
customs, currencies, religions, and business practices could all be so different.
So having dedicated teams per region may be the best thing.
Alright, now let's explore other organizational dynamics.
So which is the best way to organize your team?
Well, there's no one right answer.
But I wanted you to be aware of the myriad of approaches to
structuring your ops support organization.
And it is dynamic, and there is another dimension of things to think about.
Let's go through them.
Constantly review your support structure,
your customers, and the business since it's changing all the time.
Making adjustments to your team is good leadership.
Attrition may drive changes.
If you lose some of your key people,
hence you are losing some skills and knowledge,
don't be afraid to make changes.
New hires may drive opportunities.
New people in your organization means new skills and knowledge which would
allow you to make positive adjustments to your organization.
Also rotate people through different roles.
I am a huge believer in knowledge transfer between your team members.
This allows you to have more resiliency to attrition,
expand people's skillsets,
and you'll sleep better at night as well with less worries.
Make customer service an absolute requirement of your team.
Be sure you train and coach your team on customer service.
Users are not trying to ruin your day.
They just are trying to get the job done,
and at times technology gets in the way and you can help them.
Your greatest asset is your people.
Love and care for them at all times. Now let's summarize this module in the next slide.